# before I get started, like you to think about the following themes throughout the talk

* success as a dev is a nebulous topic and you get to define what it means to you
* in my opinion: synergy with clear, non-technical goals are one of the best tools you can use to actually boost your skills and career
* everyone's journey is different

# Who am I?

* Steven Kitzes, software engineer by hobby and trade, jsla contributor and gamer, friend-maker, beer lover, writer, guitarist (foreshadowing!!)
* started coding (secret) number of years ago in elementary school, took classes in middle/high school, majored in college but dropped out, stayed a hobbyist for years, self-taught, became game dev, laid off, back for master's/med device/qa automation internship, finally got into boring corpo consulting/tax/health care, stuck with hobby dev in the meantime, now web/real estate "macbook job"
* wtf?  not a classical collegiate education; not self-taught; industry-hopper; tech stack hopper
* so what?  who cares what that journey looked like?  when i knew what my goal was, i set my sights on it and that made the learning so much easier

# goal-driven (career/skill) development

the goal is what matters to me.  the tech is not important (tho I am here because i admit, JS is my fave, sometimes in spite of myself).  using examples, I'd like to share that from my perspective, your goals (and more importantly, _having_ them) are an amazing and powerful tool to motivate and your growth

* the original goal that got me into software was not to be an engineer or get paid a ton: it was to make awesome video games.  teaching myself game dev and finding the right mentor was what made that possible.  that meant, doing the right networking (came naturally because i loved games), learning C++ (built hardcore problem solving, compsci fundamentals and lang skills, troubleshooting in the mystical land of pointers), building games (relevant experience), eventually joining a company; but all of these steps were fun and natural because they were part of a goal i wanted independent of the skills themselves!!
* later, anti-example: goal shifted to a more generic notion of career-building, i.e. salary and title increases; this meant I had to learn new tech and do different kinds of networking; went back to school, learned Java and C#, did a stiff-collared med device company internship; this was the least amount of fun, and i cared (in my _heart_) the least about this more nebulous goal, and it showed in the fact that while i succeeded in reaching this goal through schooling and hard work, it was never easy or fun; i was never super motivated because the goal wasn't a personal passion
* later, goal shifted to better on-the-job learning and modernization of skills and the ability to use those skills to work on more exciting projects; _for me_ this meant web tech; again, had to figure out how to self-teach and find the right resources; but I was able to strategically align my training and efforts towards these goals with true personal passions, making the journey so much easier.  I like making friends with similar interests, so joining js.la provided networking oppotunities, mentorship opportunities, with "zero effort" (meaning zero extra effort) because to me, it was just a social event and place to make friends; the rest came naturally.  I love beer, but found a gap in the knowledge of the common beer drinker on serving sizes; silly little thing, but i cared deeply about it, so i made a simple PSA web app and this exposed me to UI, design (you'd never know it lol), and twitterbootstrap.  I love writing as a hobby, have written two books, always loved choose-your-own-adventure stories and collaboration on projects, so conceptualized a collaborative cyoa web app that naturally lent itself to modularized, component-based web design; i didn't learn react just to learn it, i learned it because it made it easier for me to realize the passion of bringing this collab authorship project to fruition.  most recently, this guitar app; i recently decided to take guitar more seriously, learn scales and theory and boring stuff that makes you _good_, because I have a _goal_, to learn rock and jazz improvisation, and the path to that is scales and theory.  make long story short: discovered lessons, found there were no tools to help organize the practice methodology, so decided i wanted to build a simple app.  synergize: what can i do to build this app, and insodoing, boost my skills toward a brighter career?  in this case, rapid prototyping, time boxing, scope management, and minimal research to get the "product" to release as quick as possible.  I admit ulterior motive was the get the dev work done quickly so i could play guitar; but i was comfortable being my own pushy customer here; i still learned a lot along the way!  the motivation to have this guitar project pushed my boundaries and skills as a developer, and that is goal-driven development - both in terms of the software and the career
* was the goal to learn new tech?  no!  but i had to learn new tech in order to reach the goal, so i learned about vanilla JS, refreshed my memory on the raw JS array API and Math functions, vanilla js dom manipulation, and JS timers (timeout and interval) and audio implementations in various broswers
* did this project teach me the HOT NEW TECH like svelte or deno or machine learning?  nope.  did this project motivate me to build something useful that i love and now use everyday while honing my skill set?  yeap!!

all to say, my decision making was informed by where i wanted my life to be headed, career-wise.  a ladder isn't useless, but it is _less useful_ if you don't know what you want to lean it up against; but it's also not a bad thing to prop your ladder up against different kinds of things throughout your life, or even to use your ladder horizontally sometimes to cross lateral gaps.  to put a finer point on it, for me, i struggle to learn a framework or tool just to learn it; but when a framework surfaces as the right tool (ladder) for me to reach a new goal, it becomes easy to find the motivation to climb it

# what role does mentorship play in all this

part of what helped me learn to focus on goals was both having, and being, a mentor

* had great experiences as a mentee through jobs (consultancy, now through my currently employer) and also through jsla (hey shameless plug)
* all my mentors taught by various means: have goals, and build a plan around them
* as a mentor myself, having learned from my mentors, I saw that it is even easier to guide others to success by figuring out, and helping them to codify, what their own goals are